# Assignment 1 (Individual)

**Due Feb 20th**

**Using your own containerized copy of the Diveshop MariaDB database, create queries that produce the answers to the following questions (DiveShop Queries, below)**. The results should contain only the answers requested -- plus evidence to support them -- and no more (see below).

For more information on SQL consult Chapter 5 (particularly the section on the SELECT command) in the Hoffer textbook. Also, the MariaDB/MySQL reference manual is available online at this site.

As a reminder, the basic form of the SQL Select command is:

 ```SELECT attrname1[, attrname2,... attrnameN]
 FROM table1[, table2,... tableM]
 [WHERE table1.attrnameX = 'value'
       [AND table2.attrnameY = table1.attrnameY AND ...]]
 [ORDER BY tableM.attrname1 ASC, ... DESC] ;
 ```

The brackets indicate optional parts that may not be needed depending on the query.

To do the queries you will need to become familiar with the structure of the DiveShop database and how individual relations are linked. The ER diagram linked to in Piazza and class website below should should help with this. To link relations (tables) in an SQL SELECT command you simply need to have statement like "table2.attrnameY = table1.attrnameY" where attrnameY is the name of the common attribute that links the relations (such as "Destination_No" linking the DEST and SITES tables could be specified as "DEST.Destination_No = SITES.Destination_No").

### DiveShop Queries

    1. How many tons was the sunken ship Delaware?
    2. What is customer Karen Ng's address?
    3. At what destination and site(s) might you find a Spotted Eagle Ray?
    4. Where (what destination) is the site Palancar Reef?
    5. What sites might Lorraine Vega dive on her trip?
    6. Keith Lucas wants to see a shipwreck on his trip. Is he going to the right place?
    7. What equipment is Richard Denning getting?
    8. What is the cost of the equipment rental for Louis Jazdzewski.

[ER diagram of the DiveShop Database](http://courses.ischool.berkeley.edu/i257/s20/sld025.htm)

Note:  
1. For each of the questions, create a query from your local DB client.
2. Create a document (Word, etc.) containing:
  * The query being answered.
  * The results of your query cut and pasted from your local DB client.
3. Submit assignment to bcourses.

**A few clarifications:**
1. For the last question, we are asking you how much Louis Jazdzewski is PAYING for the stuff he is renting. (Keep in mind that Louis might be renting more than one of some of the items and we are interested in the total amount he is paying.) We are not asking you what was the "cost" of those items to DiveShop or what the sale price of those items would have been if they were sold rather than rented. Note that the last two numbers would naturally be higher than the rental price.
2. If you ever get more than a full page of results for your query, you are probably doing something wrong. Most likely you are searching two disconnected tables. All the tables that are a part of your query must be connected. See the ER diagram to see how the tables are linked.
3. You may get zero results in response to some your queries since some combinations just don't exist. This may mean that the answer the question really is "none/nobody/nowhere" etc. Or it may mean that you misspelled a name or set a wrong constraint.
