# MariaDB Diveshop Queries, Command Line Edition
## Assignment 3, Part 1 (Individual)

### Due Thursday Apr 9

### Description
We will again develop queries using the DIVESHOP db, but this time we will be using the command line client, mysql, instead of datagrip.
   * mysql command line client documentation: https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/mysql-commands.html


### Making queries with mysql command line client
1. Run the mysql client that is installed with mariaDB by accessing an interactive shell inside the container
   * `docker exec -it mariadb-diveshop bash`
1. Let's change directories to `/home`
   * `cd /home`
   * `/home` is being mounted as a docker volume to your local host machine. We will see why that is important later.
1. Start the mysql command line client at the bash command prompt:
   * `mysql -u root -p`
   * Then enter the root password for mariaDB
1. At the `MariaDB [None]>` prompt you can start entering SQL commands.  Be sure to end each SQL command with a semicolon!
   * First start out with `use Diveshop;`
1. When you are ready to quit, input `\quit`

* To see what diveshop tables are available, submit the command: `show tables;`

* To see the fields for a particular table issue the command: `describe tablename;` where "tablename" is replaced with the name of the table you are interested in.

### Capturing Output
When you run a query, you are likely to see rather messy output. Let's try it. Execute each of the statements seen after **MariaDB [Diveshop]>**

**MariaDB [Diveshop]>** `select * from SITES;`

*OUTPUT:
+---------+----------------+---------------------+----------------+------------+----------------------+-----------------------+----------+---------+---------------+--------------+---------+--------------+
| site_No | Destination_No | Site_Name           | Site_Highlight | Site_Notes | Distance_from_Town_m | Distance_from_Town_km | Depth_ft | Depth_m | Visibility_ft | Visibility_m | Current | Skill_Level  |
+---------+----------------+---------------------+----------------+------------+----------------------+-----------------------+----------+---------+---------------+--------------+---------+--------------+
|    1001 |              1 | Palancar Reef       | Reef           | NULL       |                   10 |              16.09344 |      100 |   30.48 |           150 |        45.72 | Strong  | Intermediate |
|    1002 |              1 | Santa Rosa Reef     | Reef           | NULL       |                    8 |             12.874752 |       80 |  24.384 |           150 |        45.72 | Strong  | Intermediate |
|    1003 |              1 | Chancanab Reef      | Reef           | NULL       |                    4 |              6.437376 |       60 |  18.288 |       
---*

*...many lines skipped...*

About the only way to capture the results and make them pretty is to use the "tee" command to log the output into an external file and then use an editor to modify it.

**MariaDB [Diveshop]>** `\T MYSQLOUTPUT.sql`
 *Logging to file 'MYSQLOUTPUT.sql'*
 **MariaDB [Diveshop]>** select * from SITES;

 *... lots of lines like above ...*

 **MariaDB [Diveshop]>** `\t`  
 *Outfile disabled.*  
 **MariaDB [Diveshop]>** `\q`   
 *Bye*

The MYSQLOUTPUT.sql file was created in the current working directory where mysql was ran, which should be /home/ of the container. When creating the container, the following argument was passed to docker run: `--mount type=bind,source="${PWD}"/datadir,target=/home/`
   * `/home` of the container is mapped to the local host's `datadir/` subdirectory inside the directory where the `docker run` command was executed. This should have been located in your `<repo name>/docker` folder where there has been an empty `datadir/` directory (actually there has been a hidden .gitkeep file inside). Your MYSQLOUTPUT.sql file should now appear in `<repo name>/docker/datadir`.
   * This MYSQLOUTPUT.sql file can now be edited in any editor you prefer (e.g. Submlime Text) - it is just a text file.

### Assignment Diveshop Questions
1.  What are the names of the wildlife that Mary Rioux might see on her trip. Are there any Shipwrecks there (give names)?

1.  Who is paying the maximum amount for single type of rental equipment (use price * quantity to determine amount)?

1.  At how many sites might you see a "Nassau Grouper"?

1.  Produce a list of all equipment being rented for a dive vacation that costs more than $30000, make the list in descending order of the rental price of the equipment.

1.  Who is renting teal colored equipment? (see DIVESTOK.Description)

NOTE: Examine the questions carefully - if it asks for something that is rented be sure to verify that an item is a rental and not a sale or you will have wrong answers

You can also create an SQL command file that contains multiple SQL and mysql commands. The command file contents might look like the following:

\T myoutputfile

select Ship_Name, Tonnage from 
       SHIPWRCK where Ship_Name like 'Delaware'
       
\p  
\g     

...

\t  

The "\p" command prints the current command in full (so it can be captured to the "myoutputfile" file along with the query results). The "\g" command runs the query (like a semicolon).

A command file like the one above can be created in a text editor (be sure to save as a plain text file). To run a command file like this one, which already includes the commands to capture the results for further editing or printing, issue the commands:

**MariaDB [Diveshop]>** \. commandfilename
Where "commandfilename" is the name you saved the command file as.

## What To Turn In

Turn in a file using mysql command line client that answers the questions above from the Diveshop database, including the SQL commands used to obtain your results.

# MongoDB Diveshop Student Queries
## Assignment 3, Part 2 (Individual) 

### Description
The Diveshop is teaching and running their own diving classes.  You've been provided a Json data file (students.json in this directory) which has records of students, individual ids and their individual scores for class homework, exam and quiz. Please note that it is possible that all students may have not have any of the three scores.

You will create a MongoDB Server container and install the MongoDB Compass Community Edition client on your laptop.  Once you have created the container, your next task will be to insert all the data from the students.json file into MongoDB. You must create a new database called 'diveshop' and a collection called 'scores' that you will insert all the records into. You will write queries against this loaded collection on the mongo command line or through the Compass Interface for the question you're trying to answer.

### Questions
1. How many students took the exam, did the homework and took the quiz? Just print the count and a sample of 20 names.
1. How many took the exam and completed either the homework or the quiz? Just print the count and a sample of 20 names.
1. Find the student who got the highest on the exam (of those who took it)?
1. Please return all the students who scored over 50 on the exam but under 70 on the HW.

### Extra credit
EC1. Take a weighted average of all the scores; 30% of hw, 50% of exam and 20% of the quiz. Find the student who scored the highest on the weighted average.

#### Please Note
You are permitted to use some functionality like taking the first element of a list of elements that are returned but things like sorting must be performed within the mongo query.


### Create MongoDB Container
This time around, we're not going to bother creating our own image.  The stock MongoDB 4.2.3 from image [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/_/mongo) should work great, so we're gonna go straight to starting the container.

`docker run -d --network db-network --name mongo-diveshop -p 27017:27017 -e MONGO_INITDB_ROOT_USERNAME=root -e MONGO_INITDB_ROOT_PASSWORD=mypass mongo:4.2.3`

### Install MongoDB Compass Community Edition
Here's the [LINK](https://www.mongodb.com/download-center/compass) to install.  Please be sure to read the [DOCS](https://docs.mongodb.com/compass/current/) to get some more familiarity with this MongoDB client.
**NOTE:  Make sure to install the Free Community Edition for your particulary Operating System.**

### Connect Compass to your container
1. Click "New Connection"
1. Click "Fill in connection fields individually" link
1. Under Hostname, fill in Hostname: localhost, Port: 27017, Authentication: Username/Password, then fill in the Username and Password you specified in the container earlier.

### Load MongoDB with students.json
1. Under Databases, click "Create Database", specify Database: "diveshop" and Collection: "scores"
1. Import File, JSON the students.json file.
1. Now you're ready to write queries!

## What to Turn In
