# Assignment 4 - Final Project (Group)

**Due Date and Presentations:  May 7**

There are FOUR deliverables for this assignment:
* A written report
* A final presentation (on May 9th)
* A working web app implementing your database
* A document outlining (how/what) each team member contributed to the final project


### The written report

Because this is a continuation and expanded version of Assignment 2, you should be sure to remedy any problems pointed out in that assignment, and also describe any design changes made since then. 
The instructions below include a description of what is wanted regardless of whether you will be using MariaDB, PostgreSQL or some other database system for your project. You only need to use one database system and provide the information appropriate for that system. 
The report should include the following information:
* Database description - This should be 4-6 pages describing the database, the organizational (or personal) context for which it is being designed, and the uses for it. The description can incorporate the previous design description from the preliminary design report, but should be more comprehensive and reflect how the design has evolved. This should include a desription of each Entity as well as the data sources used for populating records in the database.
You should also describe features and changes that you would add to this version of the database if you were to continue to develop the database into a full and finished product.
* Data Dictionary - For MariaDB, you can use the `DESCRIBE` command for each table to generate the same kind of information based on the tables you have created. 
Or, you can have a manually maintained document with this information, just be sure that it includes what table the data element is associated with, its data type, size, if it's required (can't be NULL) and whether it is a primary or foreign key.
* Relationships Diagram - For MariaDB, you will need to generate an up-to-date ER diagram (note that the tables in ER diagram SHOULD match those in the Data Dictionary.). Be sure to include indicators of the cardinality constraints (min, max)
* Sample queries and results - Include at least 3 queries of your database that demonstrate how it can be used. The report should include the SQL form of the query and the table result from running the query. 
This implies, of course, that you will have created the database and put at least part of your data into it.
* Sample forms - For MariaDB, include the web pages (or screen captures) you intend to use for data input and output. These need not be complete and operational for this report.
* Sample reports - Create at least 2 reports showing information from tables and queries of your database. Print the reports and include them. 
For MariaDB, you can create and use SQL scripts (or a Python web app) to generate the reports. Reports usually are intended to be printed documents, typically showing summary information for the database that is useful for decision-making and analysis. For example, a report might provide breakdowns of data like the quantity of customers by state, total sales by state or region, average sales per customer, etc... 

### The final presentation
Every group is required to give a 10 minute presentation on their project. The presentation should include the following:
* A description of the project, including intended uses and/or use cases
* The database design
* Specific issues or challenges in development (these are usually illustrated using presentation slides)
* A live demonstration of your user interface for the database.

### The web application implementing your database
Every group should have a working implementation of their database and should at minimum include the following:
* A working web application that connects to an actual relational database (MariaDB, PostgreSQL, etc.) 
* At least three web pages driven by data in the database that would be useful to an end user. This could be reports, displaying raw data from the database, or the details of a particular entity instance.
* A user interface design that is usable and intuitive where all hyperlinks are fully functional

If you are looking to go above and beyond (we reserve judgment to give extra points) include the following:
* Web pages that can insert and/or edit data from the database
* Utilization of MongoDB

___

## Overall we will be grading on the following criteria:
### The dimensions (each is worth 1/4 of the grade):
* Problem statement and use cases. Do you have a clear problem in mind and have you thought through specific ways the database will be used?
  * What is the problem that currently exists and how will it be solved by this database? What objectives does your solution attempt to fulfill to address this problem?
  * Who specifically will be using the database? How exactly will it help them? If applicable, who is the database NOT intended for?
  * It is easiest to demonstrate this by developing [personas](https://www.usabilitybok.org/persona) and including detailed use cases for each primary use of the database.

* Database Design. Does the database design make sense given the problem?
  * Include an ER diagram and explain what each of your entities represent and why they are in relation to each other as specified in your design.
  * *Normally*, we would expect the database to be fully normalized. If your database is not, make sure to explain why!
  * Explicitly state any assumptions or limitations, either chosen by your team or externally inflicted, that played a role in how the database was designed.
  * Check that your database design can indeed solve all the issues outlined in your problem statement. If your database cannot achieve some of the objectives, explain this (and explain why).

* Database Implementation. Has the database been successfully implemented (as designed)?
  * A good starting point is to include the table descriptions and the SQL queries, and their results, that match your use cases. A successful demo during your presentation would greatly help on this point.
  * Link to the github repo that contains a README, the webapp and an .sql file that will create and load your DB.
  
  NOTE:  Your implementation must match your design!

* User Interaction. Does your database have a usable user interface?
  * Please include some screenshots and explain any non-obvious design decisions. Again, the demo should help convince us of this.
  * As a general rule, asking users to enter IDs of entities does not make for a usable interface. If your interface requires them to enter IDs, make sure to explain why.
  * **If you encountered problems implementing your interface as you conceived it, please make sure to document any discrepancies.** I.e., tell us both what you really wanted to make versus what you provided. Also include why you couldn't get it to work like you wanted and what you would do if you had more time. You'll get partial credit for a well-thought out interface that you could not implement. 
